📚 DOCS: Add v2.0.0b1 changelog (#5426)
aiidateam/aiida-core: docs/source/howto/archive_profile.md

---
jupytext:
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.11.4
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---

(how-to:data:share:archive:profile)=

# How to inspect an archive

```{note}
This tutorial can be downloaded and run as a Jupyter Notebook: {nb-download}`archive_profile.ipynb` {octicon}`download`, together with the archive {download}`include/process.aiida`.
```

> The AiiDA archive is a file formats for long term storage of provenance data from a particular profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AiiDA archive is a file format for long term storage of data from a particular profile.
```

> For how to create and migrate an archive, see {ref}`how-to:share:archives`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See {ref}`how-to:share:archives` for information on how to create and migrate an archive. 
```

> Once you have an archive at the latest version, you can inspect it in the same way you would a standard AiiDA profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have an archive at the latest version, you can inspect its contents in the same way you would with a standard AiiDA profile.
```
